So far, we learned how to encode and decode digital assets into raw data.
We also discussed the importance of Proof of Existence to
verify the ownership and existence of these digital documents.
You saw how one online service conducts proof of existence,
but that's not the only method.
For the upcoming project,
you'll build your own version of a Proof of
Existence notary service using your private blockchain.
This will allow you to secure an asset with your digital identity,
a Bitcoin wallet address.
To get started, we'll review a few important topics: securing
assets with a digital identity and ownership of digital assets.
To secure an asset means to protect these resources from wrongful access or alteration.
So, why even secure an asset?
Well, assets are useful to us whether directly or indirectly.
For example, a banana is directly useful because we can eat it.
A legal document is indirectly
useful because we can use it to claim ownership over something.
In this case, maybe your document claims you own the entire banana farm.
Digital assets work similarly.
As we've seen, we can use Proof of Existence to verify its ownership.
The next big question is how do we prove who owns a digital document?
For example, say I take a picture with my phone
that I really like and save it to a blockchain application.
To prove that I own the photo,
it is encoded into a data object and that object can contain multiple properties.
If we encoded that photo as a hash and submitted it on the blockchain,
we could save the information as a data object with these properties.
First, type equals jpeg; next,
the Bitcoin wallet address of the user that secured this asset on the blockchain.
Along with that, we'll store the time that digital asset was embedded on the blockchain,
and finally, the hash of the previous block this current block is tied to.
In this case, the user has used their digital identity to
secure the digital asset by embedding their information in the same block.
In the future, the existence of that information together in the blockchain proves
that this document existed at the time the transaction got included into a block.
This is the basic idea behind how Proof of Existence works at
a lower level by allowing users to embed their identity along with the hash.
The identity is used to secure the digital asset.
This allows whoever owns
the blockchain identity to claim ownership of the asset in the future.
These ideas of securing assets with a digital identity provides
the foundation of what will allow us to build a notary service using Proof of Existence.
Hopefully, now you have a better idea of what it
means to secure assets with a digital identity.
Coming up, we'll zoom out a bit to look at how
digital asset management fits into the evolution of blockchain from Bitcoin to ethereum.